Azure Basics

1. Describe Azure regional, regional pairs, and sovereign regions
2. Describe availability zones
3. Describe Azure datacenters
4. Describe Azure resources and resource groups
5. Describe subscription
6. escribe management groups
7. Describe the hierarchy of resource groups, subscriptions, and management groups

Azure Compute

1. Azure Virtual Network
2. Setting up Azure Virtual Network
3. Load Balancer in Azure Virtual Network
4. NSG in Azure Virtual Network
5. Azure Virtual Network Summary
6. Azure Networking Components Summary
7. Azure Virtual Machines Outline
8. Networking Components
9. Azure Virtual Machines Agenda
10. Different aspects of a Virtual Machine
11. Creating a Virtual Network
12. Creating a Virtual Machine
13. Reviewing the Virtual Machine
14. Configuring the IP Address

Azure VM availability and autoscaling

Topics Covered

1. VM availability sets
2. Availability Zones
3. Extensions
4. Manual Scaling
5. Autoscaling

Azure Networking

1. Describe virtual networking, including the purpose of Azure Virtual Networks, Azure virtual subnets, peering, Azure DNS, Azure VPN Gateway, and Azure ExpressRoute
2. Define public and private endpoints
3. Describe high availability Azure deployments using load balancers

Azure Storage

1. Compare Azure storage services
2. Describe storage tiers
3. Describe redundancy options
4. Describe storage account options and storage types
5. Identify options for moving files, including AzCopy, Azure Storage Explorer, and Azure File Sync
6. Describe migration options, including Azure Migrate and Azure Data Box

Module 5 | Azure Identity, Access & Security and Azure Governance & Compliance
Azure Identity, Access and Security

1. Describe directory services in Azure, including Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) and
   Azure Active Directory Domain Services (Azure AD DS)
2. Describe authentication methods in Azure, including single sign-on (SSO), multifactor
   authentication, and passwordless
3. Describe external identities and guest access in Azure
4. Describe Azure AD Conditional Access
5. Describe Azure role-based access control (RBAC)
6. Describe the concept of Zero Trust
7. Describe the purpose of the defense in depth model
8. Describe the purpose of Microsoft Defender for Cloud

Azure Governance and Compliance

1. Describe the purpose of Azure Blueprints
2. Describe the purpose of Azure Policy
3. Describe the purpose of resource locks
4. Describe the purpose of the Service Trust Portal

Azure Cost Management

1. Describe factors that can affect costs in Azure
2. Compare the Pricing calculator and the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) calculator
3. Describe the Azure Cost Management and Billing tool
4. Describe the purpose of tags

Azure Deployments

1. Describe Azure Cloud Shell, including Azure CLI and Azure PowerShell
2. Describe Azure Resource Manager and Azure Resource Manager templates (ARM templates)
3. Describe the purpose of Azure Arc

Azure Monitoring

1. Describe the purpose of Azure Advisor
2. Describe Azure Service Health
3. describe Azure Monitor, including Log Analytics, Azure Monitor alerts, and Application Insights
